#Teach the Class Something:  You too can draw.


My brainstorming for writing my article to class wiki
Write an article for class wiki:  outline first?


http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/basics

Markdown syntax to use (html link for pintrest)

Points to make in article (first outline)

A. What going to talk about (brief overview)

B.  Why is this important?  What would you use it for? (deliverables, brainstorming, increase creativing...)

C. Overview: sketching, drawing and illustrating (for our purposes), lettering, sketchnoting, visual thinking

Practice with the class:  demo simple perspective (1 and 2 pt),  practice a few letters (embelish), few icons, hatch/stiple light bulb shade, line weight 

F.  Summary:  what are main points?  why should you care?


1.  Some tips to improve (get what in mind onto paper):  draw what you actually see!  (blind contour) straight lines, parallel lines, stipling, neat, PRACTICE (shade, doodle, line art, color, blind contour, perspective--one and two point)  "color in the lines...or outside of, after you are good at inside.  Know rules before you break them"

2.  Doesn't have to be realistic.  Picasso and children (draw what know is there, but if you want to be realistic, you can with practice.  adults also draw what they "think" they see "apple" rather than the actual shade, line, angles, etc that are there.  Mind has "apple" concept)   (mind will fill in 30% for understanding?) 

3.  For sketchnoting (define) and illustrating ideas (in meetings, to clients) 

4.  The reasons to add illustrations are to do just that:  illustrate an idea, concept, design.  Pictures increase understanding, memory, creativing, interest in topic and make it easier to describe thing.  Show a color versus trying to describe in words... pic worth 1000 words

4.  Practice with class:  line work, shading, lettering (points about)

5.  Visual thinking (changes your brain and opens your creative mind).  See things in a new way.

6.  Fun:  examples of lettering with mood, motion, emphasis, etc
7.  Clarity

Plenty of videos, websites, etc. But, best thing you can do is practice.  Add doodles, arrows, icons, lines, lettering


For supplemental information and review, I have created a Pinterest page.  On the page I include some examples of things I discussed (shading, contour line drawing, coloring for adults (to foster creativity and visual thinking)
https://www.pinterest.com/jenforearth/yes-you-can-draw-sketching-to-communicate-ideas/