##Week Seven Blog

I decided to do (one of) my "teach the class something" project on illustrating ideas and taking sketchnotes.    Often I hear people say, "I can't draw" or "I'm not an artist."  First, I want people to realize that they CAN learn to draw and feel confident about expressing themselves artistically.  Anyone can draw.  If people know techniques and practice, almost anyone can learn to draw realistically.  But drawing doesn't need to be fine art.  What I would like to teach the class is how to literally illustrate ideas and why it is important.

75% of our information intake is visual (citation: some online video).  I don't know what that means, exactly.  What about blind people?  Touch?  Smell?  I need to check that statistic.  As you may know, 58.7% of statistics are made up on the spot.  (That's what I thought sounded like a very specific percentage, anyway.)  The point is that sketching is very useful:  in meetings, for brainstorming, when talking with clients about projects, to explain something that is hard to put into words.  A picture is worth 1000 words, so why not sketch out some of our thoughts and ideas?  Additionally, drawing and reading sketchnotes uses different parts of the brain.  Learning to "Think Visually" can open up creative energy, make connections, and come up with new or innovative ideas that you wouldn't have otherwise thought of...

I will continue this after I have completed my presentation(s).  I am going to do a few of them for extra credit, since I researched a few ideas anyway.  Another one is a few big points about databases what to always do (be consistent, timely and accurate and several other things with funny or awkward examples) and what not to do (e.g., leave your customer database on a computer connected to the internet, *with no security or backup* (NO firewall, or antivirus, no other version of the data except on one computer's harddrive)--like I discovered (and immediately fixed) at one small business that I was hired to manage.

FIX THIS BLOG>... typed it fast.